=============
Documentation
=============

The documentation for this project uses the
`Sphinx <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/>`_ documentation
generator to produce readable and nicely-formatted documentation. The
fact that the documentation is nicely formatted in HTML does introduce
the risk that the documentation being referenced is out of date from
the source documentation. However, Sphinx does autobuild documentation
from the source code's documentation strings, so its documentation is
more likely to match the current version of the code.

Sphinx uses the reStructuredText markup language to format
documentation. This flexible format allows for easy generation of HTML
complete with code blocks, headings, bold and italic fonts, web links,
and relative links. The Sphinx project's own documentation is quite
good, so this page will not seek to replace it, but simply summarize
the steps required to build an up-to-date version of the HyGenCMS
documentation.

When generating documentation, Sphinx imports each module, in order to
have access to the docstrings contained. Therefore the documentation is
best compiled on a BeagleBone Black board with the HyGen configuration
already done. In order to build the documentation, we'll also have to
install Sphinx itself.

.. code:: bash

    sudo pip3 install Sphinx sphinx_rtd_theme

Then in the ``HyGenCMS/docs`` folder, run ``make html`` to make the
Sphinx documentation. Of course, the ``docs/build`` directory is
ignored in git, so we have to use another method to get the
documentation up to the Dropbox folder. The easiest is a USB drive.

.. code:: bash

    # Plug in USB drive
    pmount sda1  # Probably /dev/sda1 is the USB
    cp -R ~/HyGenCMS/docs/build/html /media/sda1
    pumount sda1

You can now unplug the USB drive, and the documentation will be in the
``html`` folder on the drive.
